Document property columns in Resource Explorer (#18630)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/insights/discovery/search.md

Clicking the "X" within the search bar will remove all previously selected filters.

## Property columns

{{% notes "info" %}}
Property columns are only available to organizations using Team, Enterprise and Business Critical editions.

If you would like to use them, [contact us](/contact?form=sales) to upgrade.
{{% /notes %}}

Property columns let you promote any resource input or output property into a first-class column in the results grid. Once added, a property column behaves like any built-in column: you can sort, filter, and group by its values across all resources returned by your query.

Property columns use the same [property path](/docs/reference/property-paths/) syntax as [property queries](#property-queries). For example, `tags.Environment` exposes the value of the `Environment` tag on each resource, and `instanceType` exposes the instance type of compute resources. Nested and bracketed paths (such as `tags["name containing spaces"]`) are supported.

### Creating a property column

To add a property column from the results grid:

> 1. Click the gear icon above the grid to open the settings menu.

Author: Change 'gear icon' to 'settings icon'

Author: Done in 722c872cb5 — changed to 'settings icon'.

1. Select **Create property column**.
1. Enter a property path (for example, `tags.Environment` or `instanceType`) in the dialog that appears.
1. Confirm to add the column.

The new column is appended to the right of the existing columns. Resources that do not have a value for the given property show an empty cell for that column.

### Adding a column from the detail view

> When you expand a resource row to view its details, each listed input and output property displays an **Add as column** action next to its value. Clicking this action creates a property column for that property path without having to type it manually — useful when you have already located a property of interest on one resource and want to see its value across every resource in the grid.

Author: The detail view is shown by clicking on the name cell in a row to drill into the Detailed view, not by 'expanding a resource row'. 

There is now only one menu for adding a property column from the Resource Details Property table. The menu is 'Create property column'. When selected it will determine if the property is an object type with children or a single value. If it is a single value it will create the property column. If it is an object it will show a dialog that allows the user to enter the path to the child (or grandchild) property.

Author: Done in 722c872cb5. Rewrote the section to say you drill in via the name cell, and documented the single **Create property column** action on each property row with the singleton vs. object-with-children behavior (direct create vs. dialog for child/grandchild path).

### Sorting, filtering, and grouping

Property columns support the same interactions as built-in columns:

- **Sort**: Click the property column header to sort results ascending or descending by property value.
- **Filter**: Open the column filter to narrow results to one or more specific property values.
- **Group by**: Drag the property column header into the Row Groups Header to group resources by property value. Expanding a group drills into the matching resources, just as it does for built-in columns.

### Hiding and showing property columns

> Property columns can be hidden from the grid without being removed by toggling them off in the column chooser, the same as any built-in column. Re-adding a hidden property column via **Create property column** or **Add as column** makes it visible again.

Author: Property columns can be deleted completely by dragging the property column from the grid and dropping it outside the grid. This will hide the property and delete it from the set of available properties. Deleting columns only works for property columns, default columns can't be deleted. If you just want to hide the property but not delete it you can do this from the 'Choose columns' menu item in the settings menu on the main Resources grid page.

Author: Done in 722c872cb5. Renamed the section to **Hiding and deleting property columns** and split it into two paragraphs: hiding via **Choose columns** in the settings menu (works for all columns), and deleting by dragging a property column out of the grid (property columns only — built-in columns cannot be removed from the available set).

Clicking the "X" within the search bar will remove all previously selected filters.

## Property columns

{{% notes "info" %}}
Property columns are only available to organizations using Team, Enterprise, and Business Critical editions.

If you would like to use them, [contact us](/contact?form=sales) to upgrade.
{{% /notes %}}

> Property columns let you promote any resource input or output property into a column in the results grid. Once added, a property column behaves like any built-in column: you can sort, filter, and group by its values across all resources returned by your query.

Author: ```suggestion
Property columns let you promote any resource property into a column in the results grid. Once added, a property column behaves like any built-in column: you can sort, filter, and group by its values across all resources returned by your query.
```

Property columns use the same [property path](/docs/reference/property-paths/) syntax as [property queries](#property-queries). For example, `tags.Environment` exposes the value of the `Environment` tag on each resource, and `instanceType` exposes the instance type of compute resources. Nested and bracketed paths (such as `tags["name containing spaces"]`) are supported.

### Creating a property column

To add a property column from the results grid:

1. Click the settings icon above the grid to open the settings menu.
1. Select **Create property column**.
1. Enter a property path (for example, `tags.Environment` or `instanceType`) in the dialog that appears.
1. Confirm to add the column.

The new column is appended to the right of the existing columns. Resources that do not have a value for the given property show an empty cell for that column.

### Adding a column from the detail view

> Click the name cell in a row to drill into the Detailed view for that resource. Each listed input and output property in the Detailed view has a **Create property column** action in its row. Selecting this action adds a column for the property without having to type the path manually. This is useful when you have already located a property of interest on one resource and want to see its value across every resource in the grid.

Author: ```suggestion
Click the name cell in a row to drill into the Detailed view for that resource. The Action column menu for each property has a **Create property column** action. Selecting this action adds a column for the property without having to type the path manually. This is useful when you have already located a property of interest on one resource and want to see its value across every resource in the grid.
```
